# Putting the Domain Model to Work

**Model** represents some **aspect of reality** or an **idea is of interest**.

**Domain** is a **subject area**, which user applies the program to.

**Model** is a **simplification** of someting. It is is selectively **simplified** and consciously **structured** form of **knowledge**. It abstracts the aspects relevant **to solving the problem**.

**Model is not just a diagram**, it is the idea that graphical representation should convey.

**Model is not just a knowledge from BA head**, it is rigorously organized and structured **selective abstraction of that knowledge**.

## The Utility of a Model in DDD

1. What makes the **model relevant** is the **link** between model and **implementation**. It helps during **maintenance** and **continuous development** as far as code can be interpreted based on understanding the model.
2. Model is the **backbone of the language** used by all team members. Everyone sticks to the same terms, team can **communicate without the translation**.
3. Model is the **distilled knowledge**, it is the **way of structuring the knowledge** which is most important.

Domain model is must have for the **domains with rich functionality**. Not having it would turn into massive investment into ad hoc development.

### The Heart of Software

**Heart of software** - the **ability** of the program **to solve** domain-related end user **problems**. 

Developers **have to steep** themselves **in the domain** to **build knowledge** of the business.

Leaders within a team, which **understand the centrality of the domain** can put the **project back on course**, when development of an appropriate model gets lost.

Developer **with model designing skills** is much **more valuable** even in the domain which is new to him.



