# Crunching Knowledge

## Ingredients of effective modeling

1. Bind **model to the implementation**;
2. Develop the **language based on a model**. It should be **unambiguous** and **everyoune should stick** to its terms and descriptions;
3. **Model is the heart of implementation**. Not just anemic objects representing schema, but domain **objects have to carry behavior**;
4. **Distill the model** - **drop the excessive things** which are not important to the implementation;
5. **Refine and brainstorm** - talk with domain experts regarding **scenarios in a model** in a model language.

## Knowledge Crunching

**Model** - rigorous **expression of the knowledge** found to be most relevant.

The **waterfall method** - business expert talks to analysts, which digest and abstract, then pass to developers, - **FAILS**, as far as **it lacks the feedback**.

**Knowledge crunching** - process of **refining the model** so that it will both make sense to business experts and developers. 
It is built via **lots of _communication_** between domain experts and devs. 
It **helps devs** better to **understand the business**.
It **helps BA** better to **understand the technical stuff**.

Having **good model** makes it possible for project easily to **emerge to the new powerful features** as corollaries of old ones.

## Continuous Learning

When we **start implementing** the features, **we never know enough**.
**Knowledge** on project **is always fragmented** - among people and documents.

**If the code** and docs **do not express knowledge** learned by hard communication, then **once oral tradition is interrupted**, the **knowledge is lost**. For instance, key team member leaves the company.

Dev **team has to grow knowledge about the domain** it assists besides learning general modeling techniques.

## Knowledge-Rich Design

This design goes beyond just "find the nouns". It has the actual **business rules**, consolidates **domain activities** and reflect the insignt of the domain.

It happens that **business rules are inconsistent**. Domain experts **reconcile the contradictions** and **fill the gaps**, though for software to do it, it is necessary to have the **close collaboration** with software experts.

### Extracting a hidden concept

**Policy** - another name for design pattern **strategy**.

**Domain model** and corresponding design **can secure and share knowledge**.

When it's necessary to **implement some business rule** into some activity, it is usual thing that **it should be extracted** into a separate **policy**/**rule** class, thereby showing that **it represents something more** than just obscure calculation.

When **implemented with good model and design**, it is possible to show tech artifacts or even code, and **domain expert will understand it** (with guidance).

## Deep Models

Useful **models** usually **lie below the surface**. Some **parts of the model** that seemed important at the outset **may be discarded** once we understand the domain.

**Good models are built** during the **knowledge crunching**, which is exploration of the domain. You can't know where you'll end up.




